# Postgres: Naming Conventions

## Introduction​

The Hasura GraphQL Engine generates names for various schema objects (fields, types, arguments, etc.) and the naming
convention for these autogenerated names can be customized to suit your needs.

Note

Naming conventions are an experimental feature and can be enabled by adding `naming_convention` to the `HASURA_GRAPHQL_EXPERIMENTAL_FEATURES` environment variable array or with the server flag `--experimental-feature` .

Supported from

Naming conventions are available at version `v2.8.0` and higher.

Database Support

Naming conventions are only available on Postgres sources.

## Supported naming conventions​

Currently, Hasura provides two naming conventions:

- `hasura-default` : This is the **default** naming convention used in the Hasura server and is used when a naming
convention is not explicitly specified. In this naming convention, all names will use snake casing ( `snake_case` ) and
defined enum table values will not change.
- `graphql-default` : This is a new naming convention which is more popular in the Javascript ecosystem. Suppose you have
a table called `my_table` in schema `my_schema` , this convention will work as follows:
    - Type names will be[ pascal-cased ](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/Pascal_case). In the above example, Hasura Server
will generate the type `MySchemaMyTable` for the select field.

- Field names will be[ camel-cased ](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/CamelCase). In the above example, Hasura Server
will generate the field name `mySchemaMyTableAggregate` for the aggregate field.

- Argument names and boolean operators will be camel-cased. For example, Hasura Server will generate argument names
like `orderBy` , `distinctOn` .

- Enum values will be upper-cased. i.e. for an enum table, all the values will be upper-cased when used as enum value
in Hasura Server.


 `hasura-default` : This is the **default** naming convention used in the Hasura server and is used when a naming
convention is not explicitly specified. In this naming convention, all names will use snake casing ( `snake_case` ) and
defined enum table values will not change.

 `graphql-default` : This is a new naming convention which is more popular in the Javascript ecosystem. Suppose you have
a table called `my_table` in schema `my_schema` , this convention will work as follows:

| Naming Convention | Field names | Type names | Arguments | Enum values |
|---|---|---|---|---|
|  `hasura-default`  | Snake case | Snake case | Snake case | as defined |
|  `graphql-default`  | Camel case | Pascal case | Camel case | Uppercased |


Note

- Setting[ custom table and field names ](https://hasura.io/docs/latest/schema/postgres/custom-field-names/)in Hasura will override the naming
convention of the source. For example, if the custom table name is set to `my_table` and `naming_convention` is `graphql-default` , the field names generated will be `my_table` , `my_tableByPk` , `my_tableAggregate` and so on.
- `hasura-default` is the naming convention used prior to `v2.8.0` .


 **For example:** 

Consider a schema named, `app_db` , with the following structure:

1. **app_users** : A table with the columns **user_id** , **username** , **last_seen** , **favorite_day** and **referred_by** .
2. **week_days** : An enum table with column **day_names** and rows **monday** , **tuesday** and so on.
3. We have a foreign key set up between `week_days.day_names` and `app_users.favorite_day` .


For the above schema, a sample GraphQL query will look like the following with the different naming conventions:

 **hasura-default** 

 **graphql-default** 

Behavior of custom table name

For the `graphql-default` naming convention and a[ custom table name ](https://hasura.io/docs/latest/api-reference/syntax-defs/#table-config)for a
given table/view, the following rules are followed:

- The custom table name will not be modified (change of case) if it is the first entity for a given name.
- The custom table name may be modified if the name is being prefixed by something.


| Sl. no. | Custom table name | Select | Select by pk | Typename | Insert table one |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 1 | table_one | table_one | table_oneByPk | tableOne | insertTable_oneOne |
| 2 | tableOne | tableOne | tableOneByPk | tableOne | insertTableOneOne |
| 3 | TableOne | TableOne | TableOneByPk | TableOne | insertTableOneOne |


## Set default naming convention for all sources​

For setting the default naming convention for all sources, set the environment variable `HASURA_GRAPHQL_DEFAULT_NAMING_CONVENTION` to one of `hasura-default` or `graphql-default` .

This means any database source will follow this naming convention unless explicitly set to something else.

## Set naming convention for a particular source​

- Console
- CLI
- API


Currently setting the database naming convention is only allowed at the time of connecting your database.

Head to the `Data -> Manage -> Connect Database` page. Under the `GraphQL Field Customization` section after, enabling
the naming conventions, you can choose the naming convention of your choice.

Image: [ Naming Convention ](https://hasura.io/docs/assets/images/naming-convention-2073d7944f9d26deeb370282793fbd28.png)

Head to the `/metadata/databases/databases.yaml` file and add the database configuration as below:

```
-   name :  <db_name >
   configuration :
     connection_info :
       database_url :
         from_env :  <DB_URL_ENV_VAR >
   customization :
     naming_convention :  hasura - default
   tables :   [ ]
   functions :   [ ]
```

Apply the metadata by running:

`hasura metadata apply`

You can set the naming convention of a particular source using the `customization` field in the[ pg_add_source ](https://hasura.io/docs/latest/api-reference/metadata-api/source/#metadata-pg-add-source)metadata API.

```
POST   /v1/metadata   HTTP/1.1
Content-Type :   application/json
X-Hasura-Role :   admin
{
   "type" :   "pg_add_source" ,
   "args" :   {
     "name" :   "<db_name>" ,
     "configuration" :   {
       "connection_info" :   {
         "database_url" :   {
           "from_env" :   "<DB_URL_ENV_VAR>"
         }
       }
     } ,
     "customization" :   {
       "naming_convention" :   "hasura-default"
     } ,
     "replace_configuration" :   true
   }
}
```

Note

Setting the convention in the source customization will override the default naming convention.

### What did you think of this doc?

- [ Introduction ](https://hasura.io/docs/latest/schema/postgres/naming-convention/#introduction)
- [ Supported naming conventions ](https://hasura.io/docs/latest/schema/postgres/naming-convention/#supported-naming-conventions)
- [ Set default naming convention for all sources ](https://hasura.io/docs/latest/schema/postgres/naming-convention/#pg-default-naming-convention)
- [ Set naming convention for a particular source ](https://hasura.io/docs/latest/schema/postgres/naming-convention/#pg-source-naming-convention)


Image: [ Hasura Con ](https://res.cloudinary.com/dh8fp23nd/image/upload/v1686154570/hasura-con-2023/has-con-light-date_r2a2ud.png)

Image: [ arrow-icon ](https://res.cloudinary.com/dh8fp23nd/image/upload/v1683723549/main-web/chevron-right_ldbi7d.png)

### Start with GraphQL on Hasura for Free

- Build apps and APIs 10x faster
- Built-in authorization and caching
- 8x more performant than hand-rolled APIs


Image: [ Promo ](https://hasura.io/docs/assets/images/hasura-free-ff60e409244e0ea12b5a3045d1a9096b.png)